KCL book, second edition (#29)
KittyCAD/kcl-book: kcl-book/src/sketch2d_curves_constraints.md

# Sketching curved lines

<!-- toc -->

In the previous chapter, we sketched basic shapes, like a triangle and a rhombus. In this chapter, we'll look at some more interesting kinds of sketches you can do, using other KCL standard library functions.

## Fixed arcs

Let's sketch a pill shape, like a rectangle but with rounded edges. We'll need arcs for this! Let's start with a basic sketch with fixed size and position. We'll need two straight lines and two circular arcs.

```kcl
height = 4
width = 10
pill = sketch(on = XY) {
  bot = line(start = [0, 0], end = [width, 0])
  top = line(start = [0, height], end = [width, height])
  left = arc(start = [0, height], end = [0, 0], center = [0, height/2])
  right = arc(start = [width, 0], end = [width, height], center = [width, height/2])
}
```

![A pill shape made from fixed arcs and lines](images/static/fixed_pill.png)

> In KCL, arcs always go counter-clockwise from their start to their end. This pill shape was very straightforward to code, but sketching it required me to use a pen and paper to figure out exactly where every point on the 2D plane was. The start and end of every arc and line had to be carefully calculated. Let's try letting KCL's constraint solver do the work for us instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In KCL, arcs are drawn counter-clockwise from their start point to their end point. This pill shape was very straightforward to code, but sketching it required me to use a pen and paper to figure out exactly where every point on the 2D plane was. The start and end of every arc and line had to be carefully calculated. Let's try letting KCL's constraint solver do the work for us instead. 
```

We know the pill should have parallel straight lines of equal length, so we'll add those constraints:

```kcl
parallel([line1, line2])
equalLength([line1, line2])
```

We also want the two circular arcs to be the same radius, and to meet smoothly at the straight lines. So we'll add:

```
equalRadius([arc2, arc1])
tangent([line1, arc1])
tangent([line1, arc2])
```

Great! Our final shape should look like this:

![A pill shape made from arcs](images/static/pill_sketch.png)

```kcl
pill = sketch(on = YZ) {
  line1 = line(start = [var -4.18mm, var 5.88mm], end = [var 1.34mm, var 5.85mm])
  line2 = line(start = [var 1.32mm, var 4.12mm], end = [var -4.19mm, var 4.15mm])
  arc1 = arc(start = [var -4.18mm, var 5.88mm], end = [var -4.19mm, var 4.15mm], center = [var -4.18mm, var 5.01mm])
  arc2 = arc(start = [var 1.32mm, var 4.12mm], end = [var 1.34mm, var 5.85mm], center = [var 1.33mm, var 4.99mm])
  coincident([arc1.start, line1.start])
  coincident([line1.end, arc2.end])
  coincident([arc2.start, line2.start])
  coincident([line2.end, arc1.end])
  parallel([line1, line2])
  equalLength([line1, line2])
  equalRadius([arc2, arc1])
  tangent([line1, arc1])
  tangent([line1, arc2])
}
```

> This defines a nice pill shape. We could fix its position in 3D space by adding a `coincident()` constraint between the start of a line, and the origin (referred to in KCL as a built-in constant, `ORIGIN`). Or we could constrain the distance from some point to the origin with the built-in [`distance`], [`verticalDistance`] and [`horizontalDistance`] functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This defines a nice pill shape. We could fix its position in 3D space by adding a `coincident()` constraint between the start of a line, and the origin (referred to in KCL as the built-in constant, `ORIGIN`). Or we could constrain the distance from some point to the origin with the built-in [`distance()`], [`verticalDistance()`] and [`horizontalDistance()`] functions.
```
